I will say in in the wake of every tragedy, there are things that are predictable.
One of the things that's predictable is that you see some some people engaging in I think partisan games and trying to
blame See, there you go. Don't politicize it. I told you right on script. Now is not
the time and this is a natural disaster. It is what it is. It happens. Let's get
started on the the warning systems and the potential failures. And this is a part of the country that
people here know as a flash flood alley. There is a combination of extreme rain events, very thin soil. Torrential rain
caused one river to surge nearly 26 ft in just 45 minutes early Friday morning.
We're at Camp Mystic looking for our kids. Children's summer camps docked the shoreline of the Guadalupe. At Camp
Mystic, an all girls summer camp, the river started running through cabins where children were sleeping. Nearly a
dozen third and fourth grade girls are still missing. We're looking for places that they're going to potentially be alive.
Texas Governor Greg Abbott said no one anticipated the severity of the storm. The moment in time when they knew the
magnitude of the water, it's a difficult decision whether or not to be it. It's pretty crazy when you think about it,
but like Republicans do actively work against the best interests of the public in in every aspect of governance.
Someone in the chat was talking about like harm reduction initiatives for uh for safe injection sites. Like they're
pro capital, pro-profit, and antihuman for every single issue. But because this
kind of death is often uh as we've talked about before with Luigi Manion, social murder, most people are oblivious
because it's not immediate. It's just like you don't see it as like action reaction. You see it as like something
that is uh totally out of people's hands. Despite deadly floods here in the past, there are no outdoor warning systems
here. No sirens. Instead, people rely on predictions and forecasts from the National Weather Service. Now, local
officials debated adding a system back in 2017. They held off because of the
cost of that system. We're also learning more about the people who died in this tragedy, including eight and
nineyear-old girls at Camp Mystic, just feet from the Guadalupe River. The pictures we're showing you here show the
inside of cabins at the camp after the flood waters rushed through. You can see everything is covered in mud. It is not
clear whether the girls in these cabins were able to escape. Janet Shamlin is down river from here. She has been
gathering stories about what happened. Janet, good morning to you,
Maurice. Good morning. You can only imagine the anguish and the heartbreak as some families are still waiting on
word of their loved ones and the moms and dads who dropped off their little girls at Camp Mystic. Some just a few
days earlier thinking these girls were about to have the summer of their life even though it has been three days. For
those who haven't heard, you know they are holding on. Yeah. GOP cycle. Cut funding, ruin lives. Pray hard. Devastation takes
place. Rinse and repeat. Hope this morning. This is the aftermath of unimaginable tragedy. Devastated bunk
houses at Camp Mystic, where some of the girls who went missing were staying as floodwaters engulfed the grounds.
Georgia Congressman Buddy Carter said his two grandchildren survived, but their cousin, 9-year-old Janie Hunt,
died. She's related to Kansas City Chief's owner Clark Hunt. God has wrapped his arms around her in our
thoughts and prayers with with all those involved. It just started pouring in. We had to fight the door to get it closed.
Christina Wilson said her fiance, "Which one's cheaper? Setting up flood detection systems or picking up kids corpses?" Uh, kids corpses for sure.
Actually, it's probably not. It's probably not cheaper. But it's kind of like this. The calculation in the a in
the absence of government intervention, the calculation that like companies make in terms of safety and and uh creating
fail safes and redundancies goes away because it's easier to make a cheaper
alternative a uh and and cut corners in the production of airplanes, for example, and increasingly cut cost that
way. So you can keep uh driving up the profit margins and then make this calculation that if people die, if
people die in the process due to your uh elimination of safety measures, for example, ultimately it's still more cost
effective to let people die. And the same thing goes uh and the same thing happens here as well. We need more tax
breaks. We need to fund Israel. We need to fund uh military incursions overseas.
we can't fund the uh safety measures because they're too costly and we'll
we'll basically, you know, we'll we'll we'll they're banking on uh people's
inability to pay attention to a singular issue and who is perhaps most responsible for said singular issue.
What ideological force is responsible for these issues? Uh they're banking on people's inability to to to
understand who the villains are here. So then they just they just move on to the
next thing. 27-year-old Julian Ryan severed an artery in his arm as he punched open a
window when floodwaters inundated their home in the community of Ingram. His family was able to escape. He was not.
He had lost all of it, all all his blood. Um he looked at me and the kids
and my mother-in-law and he was sorry I'm not going to make it. I love y'all. In Kurville, Emily Gutierrez told us her
cousin Leo's house was swept from its foundation. She said Leo, his wife, and
their 2-year-old son are still missing. As much as we want to pray and hope,
there's only so much a human can actually hold on. All the muck, all the
dirty water, all the trash, the trees. If the cars are flipped over and the
houses are moved, what chance does human have? Those who knew Camp Mystic's
owner, Dick Eastland, say he died heroically trying to rescue campers. His
grandson writing, "If he wasn't going to die of natural causes, this was the only other way, saving the girls that he so
loved and cared for." He was, you know, a man that made everyone feel safe and seen. He was just
an extremely selfless person and he showed that until the very end.
But now I'm on Friday, hundreds of girls able to
evacuate from Camp Mystic sang songs through their tears as they rode a bus through the devastation.
The NFL and singer Shakira are among those already donating to the flood relief effort. Reddit atheist chat. I mean, honestly,
these are victims of natural disasters, but I do sometimes feel like we have um
a severe case of medieval peasant brain. Like how is this any different? We live in 2025 and we're treating these natural
disasters when we know what the causes of it are. When we have like significantly better when we have
significantly better technological uh surveillance mechanisms uh and and
prevention and warning systems that we could implement. We have satellites that are mapping out every goddamn cloud. And
we just turn around and we're like, "Oh, God, you know, God wed." We're not cavemen anymore. You know what I mean? We're not like looking up at the ball in
the sky and going like, "Oh, this is the sky gods taking out revenge." It's not that the people themselves, I don't
fault the people themselves for praying to God. That's understandable in times of crisis like this. That's the purpose
that religion serves. But you also have to still remember beyond like the the
grieving mothers that are saying this kind of stuff who is understandable for them to to grieve in this way. It's
always important to analyze the the incident and what contributed to it with
cold rational logical thinking. Yeah. Here people don't understand how fast this developed. A time-lapse video
provided by an eyewitness showed flood uh flood waters rising over a causeway in Kingsland, Texas, completely submerging it in the span of a few
minutes. [Music]
This is a 50minute increase. But like look how fast it goes from 1711. The
road exists. Look at this. Look at this. 1711 road exists.
Boom. 1717. It's gone. It went from 511 to 5
by by 5 from 511 to like 516 the road is
is completely submerged. Like that's crazy. It's basically like a like a dam
collapsing. Like it that's what it that's what it feels like. Yeah. The issue is there's massive drought. So
then the environment is like uh super uh the environment is already susceptible to to flash floods for that reason. And
then there's massive rainfall that follows after the massive drought and the ground can't soak up the water fast
enough and you create this uh you create this incredible condition where these
areas that are known flood planes have uh a significantly higher amount of
water that blow through. You have to remember uh there are there are always there are always people that turn around
and say like oh these are red states they deserve it or whatever the obviously they don't. Okay, nobody
deserves this. I don't give a what they voted for. I don't even care if they deny climate change. In many of these
circumstance, you have like 40% of the state, some of the most underserved
uh marginalized communities that live in these areas that are literally voting for the Democrats. It's just that
they're so disenfranchised through voter suppression and numerous other methods that uh you know, it doesn't it doesn't
matter. Like their existence doesn't matter. Just like there's 4 million registered Republican voters in the
state of California, a lot of people forget that like California as a state has more Republicans than Republican
states, like two, three Republican states combined. And in the red states, there's a ton of Democrat voters as
well. Not that party uh allegiances matter at all. It doesn't, especially in times of like natural uh disasters.
First and foremost, it should be an opportunity to lend support and then uh and then educate people like that should
be the goal here. Like this is yet another crisis that it that was
avoidable. These things like we we treat we have the capacity to create
successful prevention methods. We have the capacity to to harden our infrastructure. We don't do any of those
things. So get mad at the real people that are uh get mad at the people who are actually responsible for these uh
for these deadly events rather than the victims of said deadly events.
Texas is grieving right now. Oh wow. Ted Cruz is there instead of uh
flying out to Cancun again. Shocked. Shocked I tell you. Um, I guess it's
because his house is not at risk of flash flooding, so he didn't have to escape. Yeah, maybe he had a layover.
Yeah, maybe the flash floods actually didn't let him uh fly out with his private jet or something.
The pain, the shock of what has transpired these last few days
has broken the heart of our state. As of yesterday, the confirmed death, uh, this sociopath is trying to come
across as though he's like empathetic here, which is crazy. toll was 82 and those numbers are continuing to go up.
The children, the little girls who were lost at Camp Mystic,
that's every parent's nightmare. Yeah. Also, this is a point as well. Obviously, a common progressive fantasy
is that once conservatives see the consequences of climate change, they will have some sort of come to Jesus moment. But it's always pretty obvious to people paying attention that they are
just going to blame it on deep state flooding tech and learn nothing. But I think this is a defeist attitude to have
because for every for every five people that will do this do this exact same
thing there will be three people that can be convinced. So you have to work every single day to convince those three
people to find those three people and convince them. But I want to say in the face of all of
this it is simultaneously inspiring.
Every time there's a tragedy, every time there's a natural disaster in Texas, Texans come together. Texas is a big
state. We got 31 million people and we have hurricanes, we have tornadoes, we have wildfires,
tragedies hit this state, natural disasters hit this state. And without fail, 100 out of 100 times when that
happens, we see Texans coming together, helping each other, engaging in acts of heroism.
There have been over 850 high water rescues since this flooding
began. 850. Crew is a bad actor. I know. I mean, he's both a nefarious player here. Uh,
and also responsible, especially when you can like directly point to some of the initiatives of this
government. This is part of the reason why I I feel like I'm repeating myself a lot, but this is part of the reason why
I get mad at the Democrats because Democrats should be one immediately
helping in the recovery and relief efforts, which they are, but also simultaneously speaking from every podium, every avenue available about how
cutting the National Weather Service and cutting Noah and the defunding and the austerity that this government is
engaging in is so devastating, is so deadly. All right, we're getting some breaking news that we've been following
over the last hour with the Trump administration official confirming that about 5% of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration are being let go. Uh that agency includes the National Weather Service. They've worked together
to put together sometimes life-saving forecasts for severe weather threats. People are still going to obviously talk
about how, you know, this couldn't this couldn't be prevented. It's a natural disaster. There are systemic reasons as
to why these national these natural disasters that are supposed to be once in a lifetime are happening with higher
frequency, right? There's obviously that and that should be talked about. Climate
change specifically in this context, but then there's also the prevention and the
infrastructure hardening that needs to happen. It's not even once every 5 years. It's happening yearly. And at
that point, it's just a normal part of existence. And we have to at the very least create some sort of protection to
make sure that uh to make sure that we protect people and to avoid unnecessary deaths. And then at the last stage we
talk about the recovery and relief. There's also that aspect of it because on the recovery and relief side the Trump administration is cutting FEMA,
reallocating FEMA resources to uh immigrant detention centers to build immigrant detention centers like the
alligator Ashawitz that they build in Florida. They're utilizing the National Guard to to they're they're federalizing
the National Guard or utilizing the National Guard to work in these uh apprehension uh these these kidnapping
operations of your neighbors. Utilizing the Marine Corps in this way, our our priorities are completely out of whack.
And I think it uh it's it's good to uh talk to people about that. It's good to talk to people about this and and show
them uh what the what the administration is tasked with doing. In the same ways that the Republicans will actively point
the finger of blame at the that the Democrats and be like, "Oh, all they care about is like trans people. All they care about is trans people."
Ironically enough, the Democrats don't care about trans people, but that's besides the point. Use Republican tactics in the same exact ways against
them. They're nowhere to be found. and the moments where they are uh the mo
they come in after the fact after the devastation is done and they turn around and say oh thoughts and prayers when in
fact their actions also led to uh the the devastation and the impact being
much larger than it should be and I will tell you the president said Ted anything Texas needs the answer is
yes whatever assets you need whatever resources you need yes let us know and
we will provide everything within hours we had helicopters Over a dozen helicopters in the air,
National Guard, DPS, game wardens, Coast Guard doing search and rescue, reaching
down. We've all seen the videos of little girls being pulled up, hoisted out of harm's way. Incredible courage
and heroism. Search and rescue is the first stage,
but the process of coming together and rebuilding is going to take longer.
And I will say to all the grieving families, to all of those who've gotten the worst news imaginable that your
little girl, she's gone. Turns out Cancun Cruz was in Europe over the weekend. Ted Cruz caught
vacationing as tragedy strikes again. And the Daily Beast reports that Ted Cruz was vacationing in Europe as floods ripped through central Texas, killing at
least 89 people, including 27 campers and counselors from a summer camp. The Texas senator was spotted visiting the
Parthonon in the Greek capital Athens with his wife uh Heidi on Saturday evening.
Bro, brother, are you joking? Busted again.
Mother Cancun cruise this time in Greece. Oh my lord.
I will say for many of us those are friends and neighbors who've lost children.
Got multiple kids who go to school with my girls.
The mayor asked for prayers. Dude. Dude, this is also like trying to be like we're all victims
here. It's like, bro, you were in Greece. Like, oh, we're all we're all victims here. Let me tell you, okay, me,
Ted Cruz, I'm a victim of this this flooding. You don't understand. Half of the people who live in that area, Ted
Cruz literally voted to cut their Medicaid. You understand me? Like, that's coming down the line. half of the
people he voted to cut their Medicaid and also has actively petitioned
alongside the Trump administration to cut FEMA funding or to reallocate FEMA resources to uh you know the immigration
uh detention scheme that this administration is doing, the immigration enforcement scheme that this administration is doing. And after doing
all that, which is uh you know a lot of a lot of work, this is a lot of hard work, he had to off and go to Greece.
And I want to say thank you to the millions of Texans, to the millions of Americans, to the millions of people all
over the world right now who are praying, praying for Texas and praying for those parents
going through this grief. It is going to take friends and family embracing and
hugging and and and holding them while they weep.
And it's going to take the church. With every disaster, one of the things
we see here in Texas is the church steps up and the church helps and the church
feeds and clothes and comforts. Yeah. Church should replace replace the welfare state. Here, here is another
great take from this. Obviously, the initial reports are coming out already. Officials feared the flood risk of testing texting youth camps were
imminent, but rejected a warning system deeming it too expensive. Officials feared flood risk to youth camps, but
rejected a warning system. And Adam Johnson says, "One thing the left, such as it is, needs to emphasize over and
over is that local/state budget constraints are entirely artificial. They're manufactured austerity. If the
federal government can invent $ 38 billion out of thin air to fund a genocide, it can afford to build flood
warning systems. These budget shortfalls are not real. The federal government can invent money and transfer it to states
for essential projects whenever it wishes. We simply choose not to because subjecting 50 states and thousands of
municipalities to a game of neoliberal bum fights empowers capital. This person
doesn't understand the point. He says local state budget constraints are real. They are. Except the federal government
can always offer additional funds and additional resources in times of necessity. It is always a matter of
interest. The biggest hurdle here is never, oh, where will we find the money?
because there's always money for war. The biggest hurdle is how do we actually
reallocate these resources to these sorts of incredibly important and sometimes costly prevention methods. The
conversation around deficits only become a serious point of contention when the
expenditures we're talking about help the working poor. They only talk about how will we fund this whenever it's
something that helps you out. every single year, every single congressional session, we increased the military
budget by hundreds of billions of dollars. Even in this last Trump uh tax cut bill, the big beautiful bill, the
big bomb for the working poor, there was 150 additional billion dollars for the military. There was $175 billion for
Trump's immigration enforcement scheme. Here's the New York Times on this as well. As floods hit, key roles were
vacant at weather service offices in Texas. Some experts say staff shortages might have complicated forecasters ability to coordinate responses with
local emergency management officials. Do not let these get away
with it. They'll say thoughts and prayers. They'll say now is not the time. That's the thing that I told you
in initially when people ask these questions like how could this have happened? The first response from
Republicans will be oh now is not the time. Now is not the time. No, it is the time. When is the appropriate time? They
do this with mass shootings, too, which aren't even natural natural disasters to begin with. And now we'll we'll take questions.
Senator, you talked about how no kids here, how you've taken your own kids to camp. Was it ever communicated to you
that there was a need, that it was a priority to have a warning system so people had a chance to escape something
like this? Well, listen, I think anytime you're dealing with major rivers, there's a
risk of flooding, and there's always been a risk of flooding, uh, particularly on the Guadalupe River. Um,
I will say in in the wake of every tragedy, there are things that are predictable.
One of the things that's predictable is that you see some some people engaging in, I think, partisan games and trying
to blame. See, there you go. There's always a chance of disaster. God w it. God w it.
God is God is uh great. God is good. Uh we don't know the ways in which God
works. But don't politicize it. I told you. Right on script. Right on script.
Now is not the time. And this is a natural disaster. It is what it is. It
happens. The entire purpose of mankind that has been able to go to the moon,
that has been able to build ginormous dams, that has been able to build massive skyscrapers, is to overcome
nature. And yes, part of that hubris is what's causing these kinds of uh extreme
weather events to take place because of anthropogenic climate change. But there
is still so much more that we can do. Okay? There's still so much more that we
could do in terms of of proper prevention. Not building uh campsites
and not you know not building campsites around for example a riverbed or if we
do ensuring that we have the proper resources allocated to warning systems.
That's why I gave like the the uh Pompei example where it's like we just keep
rebuilding in the in the ash cheeks of a volcano over and over again and then the
volcano explodes and the lava takes over the city and then we rebuild the city once again and we say ah it won't happen
again. And we don't even monitor the tectonic activities. We don't even uh we we underfund we underfund the warning
systems ahead of time so that there's no evacuation. We just refuse to learn any lessons from any of this and it's so
devastating and so I think we will have a reasonable conversation about a are there any ways
to have earlier detection and some of that the limits of a flash flood they're
very difficult because they can arise so quickly and so my hope is in time we
will we will learn some lessons to implement to to next time and there will
be another flood there will be another disaster he's I mean this is a lie also. This is
literally aing lie. When he says we will learn from these lessons, his previous
response and his current response as a matter of fact shows that he's not interested in learning any of the
lessons. He literally said up there's nothing we can do about it. You know, these things happen. And then uh turning
around and being like, "Oh, well, you know, we'll figure it out after the fact. We'll figure out what went wrong
here after the fact." It's like, no, you're just pushing it down when it's no longer important in the public's eye.
When it's no longer newsworthy there, like this is a defensive posture that is
the opposite of problem solving. An issue happens, people seek out answers. They don't want to give answers in this
time of crisis on purpose because if they were to properly analyze the situation as we have done so far, even
with like the limited amount of information we have thus far, we very quickly arrive at the real villains in
the story, which happens to be the  Republican party, the people
that are actively underfunding these systems of prevention, alerts, and
analysis. He said the same thing in 2018. Senator Cruz, we will rebuild together because that's who Texans are.
Surveys flood damage in Bernett and Lano County. Urges Texans to heed warnings from local officials. They have just the
same script that they hit over and over again every single time. Same footnotes, same bullet points. Oh, you know,
thoughts and prayers. God is uh God is good. God is great. How could this have happened? We will figure out how this
could have happened and we'll make sure that it doesn't happen again. as they literally
work to make it happen again and again and again and again and make things worse in the process.
You know, I can tell you I talked about the partisan fingerpointing. Um I think
there have been some eager to to point at the National Weather Service and say cuts there led to to a lack of warning.
No, those cuts were good. Those cuts were good. We saved so much money. We saved so much money. Excuse me, sir.
talking about these cuts. Um, you're kind of making it seem like I uh need to
take accountability for things that I've advocated for, and I don't like it. How dare you, sir. This is not time for
partisan fingerpointing, sir. These cuts were good. These cuts were great. We
need more of them. Also, how could this have happened? I don't like the facts that you are presenting to me. Yeah.
Texas Observer, Trump's Doge cuts are a Texas-sized disaster. This came out on
July 3rd, 2025. Reckless agency layoffs and the dismantling of federal relief programs could leave the Lone Star State
in peril. This was before the flash floods, a day before the flash floods happened. They were like, "This is a
ginormous issue. A lot of these things that the government is tasked with doing basically have to work uh invisibly.
Like they have to work and they're working uh they're they're working in a way where you don't even realize that
they're working at all times. You only realize the government is is failing when it actually isn't working. You only
realize that the government is there when it actually fails in a moment like this. So, this is a really important
time for leftists and and Democrats alike to explain that these are uh are
are resources that we cannot take funds away from. These are uh government
instruments that we have to rely on, that we have to continue funding. and
the Republicans austerity measures against uh the the war that they're waging against these government systems
is actually deadly and will continue to have devastating consequences such as this one that we just watched. the facts
and and and if you look at the facts in particular, number one, that these warnings went out hours before the the
flood became a a true emergency level, but number two, uh the National Weather
Service here, New Bronze Fold is where where they were headquartered, they had additional
manpower. In fact, they had three additional people working that night anticipating that it was going to be a
very dangerous weather situation. I also think it's worth noting that the National Weather Service Union, which
has been very critical of of the Doge cuts, has publicly said that they don't believe that that that the reduction in
staffing had any impact whatsoever on their ability to warn of this event. And and so, look, I think it is reasonable
over time to engage in a retrospective and say at every level what could have been done better because all of us
Yeah. No, it's good. It's good actually that we uh we actually had key roles that were vacant. Like there were people
that took the the uh the retirement plan, the accelerated retirement plan,
and the government did that specifically so that there were less people in these positions. They didn't like directly lay
them off. In some instances, they did, but in many instances, they just basically said, "Hey, man, we're giving
you an opportunity before we lay you off. We're just giving you uh severance pay off with no interest in rehiring.
Here's the New York Times reporting on it. Crucial positions of the local office of the National Weather Service were unfilled as severe rainfall
inundated parts of central Texas on Friday morning, prompting some experts to question whether staffing shortages made it harder for the forecasting
agency to coordinate with local emergency managers as flood water flood waters rose. Texas officials appeared to
blame the weather service for issuing forecasts on Wednesday that underestimated how much rain was coming. But former weather service officials
said the forecasts were as good as could be expected given the enormous levels of rainfall and the storm's unusually
abrupt escalation. The staffing shortages suggest a separate problem. Those former officials said the loss of
experienced people who would typically have helped communicate with local authorities in the hours after flash flood warnings were issued overnight. In
an interview, Rob Kelly, the Kirk County judge, and its most senior elected official, said the county did not have a
warning system because such systems are expensive and local residents are resistance to new spending. taxpayers
won't pay for it. Mr. Kelly said, "Asky people might reconsider it in the light of the catastrophe." He said, "I don't
know." This is part of the reason why I sometimes say like it's better to just do it and not tell people that you're
doing it. It's just like why why do you need uh why do you need public feedback on all of this stuff? It's not like they
ask every working poor individual whether or not they want to get their SNAP benefits reduced. They just do it
anyway. I don't understand it. The National Weather Service San Angela office, which is responsible for some of the areas hit hardest by Friday's
flooding, was missing a senior hydraologist, staff forecaster, and meteorologist in charge. San Antonio
office also had significant vacancies. Staff members in those positions are meant to work with local emergency managers to plan for floods, including
when and how to warn local residents and help them evacuate. The office's warning coordination meteorologist left on April
30th after taking the early retirement package the Trump administration used to reduce the number of federal employees, according to a person with knowledge of
his departure. Some of the openings may predate the current Trump administration, but at both offices, the vacancy rate is roughly double what it
was when Mr. Trump returned to the White House in January. According to Mr. Fehee, John Soich, who until January was the
director of congressional affairs for the National Weather Service, said those unfilled positions made it harder to coordinate with local officials because
each weather service office works as a team. Reduced staffing puts that in jeopardy.
A spokeswoman for the National Weather Service, Erica Gro say, did not answer questions in the New York Times about the Texas vacancies, including how long
those positions have been open and whether those vacancies have contributed to the damage caused by the flooding. There's also another problem here where
the NWS staffers that are still employed might be fearful of speaking out against
the administration out of uh an abundance of caution, out of the fear
that the administration might actually enact revenge upon them by firing them,
which is insane to even think, but it is quite literally a reality. It is within
the realm of possible options here. Part of what they part of what the Republicans do expertly is consistently
claim that these services are not working. So, we have to just continue defunding them. That is a part of their
advocacy. A part of their advocacy quite literally is to say, "These systems are failing. They failed our people. They
failed our citizens, which is why we must defund them. They're just taking your tax dollars.